CRYPT-21: Added troubleshooting guide (#1930)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/cryptography-troubleshooting.adoc

= Troubleshoot Cryptography Module

> To troubleshoot Cryptography module, become familiar with the information about app logs, PGP protocol, attached and detached signature, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.

Reviewer: "the module": if this is in boilerplate, please fix.
I suggest removing "the information about" as well.
```suggestion
To troubleshoot the Cryptography module, become familiar with app logs, PGP protocol, attached and detached signatures, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.
```

== View the App Log

> If you encounter problems while running your Mule runtime engine (Mule) app, check the app log as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter problems while running your Mule runtime engine (Mule) app, you can view the app log as follows:
```
The bullet points don't tell HOW to "check" but rather where to view. 
Suggest changing boilerplate.

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file `log4j2.xml`, view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`.

== Enable Cryptography Module Debug Logging

> To begin troubleshooting Cryptography Module, enable debug logging to see the exact error messages:

Reviewer: GLOBAL/boilperplate fix:
```suggestion
To begin troubleshooting the Cryptography module, enable debug logging to see the exact error messages:
```

. Access Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.

> . Open your application’s project name.

Reviewer: You don't open the name; you open the app by clicking (?) the name. GLOBAL/boilerplate:
```suggestion
. Open your application by clicking its project name.
```
clicking, selecting, depending on the control.

. Open the `src/main/resources` path folder.
. Open the `log4j2.xml` file inside the folder.
. Add the following line:
+
`<AsyncLogger name=”com.mulesoft.modules.cryptography" level="DEBUG" />`

[start=6]
. Save your changes.

> . Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run* > *Run As* > *Mule Application*.

Reviewer: See Line 19 edit comment

> == Troubleshoot PGP Encryption and Decryption

Reviewer: How is this troubleshooting? It reads more like configuration.

> During PGP encryption, the sender of the message must encrypt its content using the receiver’s _public key_. So, whenever you want to encrypt messages in your Mule app using someone else’s public key, in the *Crypto Pgp* global configuration add the _receiver_ public keyring file in the *Public keyring* field.

Reviewer: Do we need to spell out PGP at first use in narrative here?

Reviewer: I wonder if this could be just as effective shortened to...:
```suggestion
If you want to encrypt messages in your Mule app using someone else’s public key, add the `_receiver_ public keyring` file in the *Public keyring* field.
```

Reviewer: OR
```suggestion
During PGP encryption, the sender of the message must encrypt its content using the receiver’s _public key_. To encrypt messages in your Mule app using someone else’s public key, in the *Crypto Pgp* global configuration, add the `_receiver_ public` keyring file in the *Public keyring* field.
```
(Not sure what part of the end of this sentence is the name of a file, but file names are typically mono.

> During PGP decryption, the receiver of the message must use its _private key_ to decrypt the contents of a message that was encrypted using a public key. To decrypt the message, in the *Crypto Pgp* global configuration add the _receiver_ private keyring file in the *Private keyring* field.

Reviewer: Ditto comments on Line 32.

.Crypto Pgp Global configuration with Public keyring and Private keyring fields
image::mruntime-crypto-pgp-global-config.png[Crypto Pgp Global configuration with Public keyring and Private keyring fields]

> == Troubleshoot PGP Signature

Reviewer: ditto comment Line 30

> In addition to encrypting, you can sign a message, the signature provides an integrity check of the original message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to using encryption and decryption, you can create a signature by which to verify the integrity of the original message.
```
Is this accurate? Is that what encryption and decryption are providing: integrity check?

> To create a signature, in the *Crypto Pgp* global configuration add the _sender_ private keyring file in the *Private keyring* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a signature, in the *Crypto Pgp* global configuration, add the `_sender_ private` keyring file in the *Private keyring* field.
```
ditto GLOBAL re. keyring file name

> To validate a signature, in the *Crypto Pgp* global configuration add the _sender_ public keyring file in the *Public keyring* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To validate a signature, in the *Crypto Pgp* global configuration, add the `_sender_ public` keyring file in the *Public keyring* field.
```
ditto file name; I've just guessed.

=== PGP Signature Types and Operations

> Cryptography module has two PGP signature operations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cryptography module has two PGP signature operations:
```

*Pgp sign* +
Creates a PGP armored signature in ASCII format. The signing is done with the private key of the sender, so the secret passphrase must be provided.
*Pgp sign binary* +

> Creates a PGP binary signature. The signing is done with the private key of the sender, so the secret passphrase must be provided.

Reviewer: Use either the : or the blank-line bullet list format: see style ref.

Reviewer: Also...each list item includes the same second sentence, so is it necessary to include that sentence in each? I'd add it to the list intro or add it after the list:

*Pgp sign*: Creates a PGP armored signature in ASCII format. 
*Pgp sign binary*: Creates a PGP binary signature. 

In both cases, signing includes the private key of the sender, so the secret passphrase must be provided.

There are two types of signatures:

* Attached signature +

> Given a signed document, you can either check the signature or check the signature and recover the original document.

Reviewer: ditto Line 50-53 format edit comment: use a colon or insert a blank line between list item and description.
GLOBAL for list items; follow style ref.

Reviewer: Also...I don't understand how this sentence defines "attached signature." It is not parallel with the description for detached signature.

* Detached signature +
The signature and the document are created separately.

> Currently, Cryptography module supports only validation of detached signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the Cryptography module supports validation of detached signatures only.
```
Also, if this is true, than why do we define attached signatures in terms of actions that the user takes?

== Understand Common Throws

> Here is a list of common throw messages and how to interpret them.

Reviewer: GLOBAL/boilerplate
```suggestion
Here is a list of common throw messages and how to interpret them:
```

* CRYPTO:PARAMETERS

>  Invalid parameters were given to the operation.

Reviewer: This sounds backward to me. The operation is configured using invalid parameters?

* CRYPTO:MISSING_KEY

>  A key required for the operation was not found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 A key required for the operation is missing.
```

* CRYPTO:PASSPHRASE

>  Invalid unlocking password provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The unlocking password is invalid.
```

* CRYPTO:CHECKSUM

 An error occurred during an attempt to calculate a checksum.

* CRYPTO:TRANSFORMATION

>  An error occurred during an attempt to transform binary to armored.

Reviewer: binary <what?> to armored <what?>

* CRYPTO:VALIDATION

>  The signature could not be validated against the data.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY try to use present tense: what condition exists that is causing the error rather than what happened in the past:
```suggestion
 The signature cannot be validated against the data.
```

= Troubleshoot Cryptography Module

To troubleshoot the Cryptography module, become familiar with app logs, PGP protocol, attached and detached signatures, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.

== View the App Log

If you encounter problems while running your Mule runtime engine (Mule) app, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file `log4j2.xml`, view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`.

== Enable Cryptography Module Debug Logging

To begin troubleshooting the Cryptography module, enable debug logging to see the exact error messages:

. Access Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.

> . Open your application by clicking project name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Open your application by clicking the project name.
```

. Open the `log4j2.xml` file inside the folder.
. Add the following line:
+
`<AsyncLogger name=”com.mulesoft.modules.cryptography" level="DEBUG" />`

[start=6]
. Save your changes.
. Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run* > *Run As* > *Mule Application*.

== Understand PGP Encryption and Decryption Configuration

During PGP encryption, the sender of the message must encrypt its content using the receiver’s _public key_. To encrypt messages in your Mule app using someone else’s public key, in the *Crypto Pgp* global configuration add the _receiver_ public keyring file in the *Public keyring* field.

During PGP decryption, the receiver of the message must use its _private key_ to decrypt the contents of a message that was encrypted using a public key. To decrypt the message, in the *Crypto Pgp* global configuration add the _receiver_ private keyring file in the *Private keyring* field.

.Crypto Pgp Global configuration with Public keyring and Private keyring fields
image::mruntime-crypto-pgp-global-config.png[Crypto Pgp Global configuration with Public keyring and Private keyring fields]

== Understand PGP Signature Configuration

> In addition to encrypting, you can sign a message, the signature provides an integrity check of the original message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to encrypting, you can sign a message. The signature provides an integrity check of the original message.
```
